01-IntroToDataScience/00-IntroToDataScience-LandingPage.md, before:

---
title: "Introduction to Data Science"
layout: single
header:
  overlay_color: "444444"
  overlay_image: /01-IntroToDataScience/assets/images/01_data_science_banner.png
---




## <span style="color: #8997c1;">Table of contents</span>

### **<a href="01-data-science-principles" style="color: #24376b;">1. Data Science Principles</a>**

### **<a href="02-computational-science-applications" style="color: #24376b;">2. Applications of Computational Science</a>**
* <a href="02A-computational-biology" style="color: #3f5a8a;">2.1 Computational Biology</a>
  * <span style="color: #3f5a8a;">go to</span > <a href="https://bioinformaticsworkbook.org" style="color: #518cc2;">_Bioinformatics Workbook_</a>
* <a href="02B-geospatial-analytics" style="color: #3f5a8a;">2.2 Geospatial Analytics</a>
  * <span style="color: #3f5a8a;">go to</span> <a href="https://geospatial.101workbook.org" style="color: #518cc2;">_Geospatial Workbook_</a>
* <a href="02C-machine-learning" style="color: #3f5a8a;">2.3 Machine Learning Outlook</a>
  * <span style="color: #3f5a8a;">go to</span> <a href="https://isugenomics.github.io/AI-workbook" style="color: #518cc2;">_AI Workbook_</a>


---

[Homepage](../index.md){: .btn  .btn--primary}
[Next Section](../02-IntroToCommandLine/00-IntroToCommandLine-LandingPage){: .btn  .btn--primary}

Commit message:

added preface to Landing Page of section 01-Intro-to-data-science

01-IntroToDataScience/00-IntroToDataScience-LandingPage.md, after:

---
title: "Introduction to Data Science"
layout: single
header:
  overlay_color: "444444"
  overlay_image: /01-IntroToDataScience/assets/images/01_data_science_banner.png
---

Data Science is an approach shaped in response to digital information whose size and unstructured nature are far beyond the capabilities of conventional tools. It is not just about how to process or store Big Data but also how to improve knowledge retention. Data Science emerges as the fourth paradigm besides empirical, theoretical, and computational, where modern computing techniques (e.g., machine learning) lead to discovering the insights from data-driven analyses.


## <span style="color: #8997c1;">Table of contents</span>

### **<a href="01-data-science-principles" style="color: #24376b;">1. Data Science Principles</a>**

### **<a href="02-computational-science-applications" style="color: #24376b;">2. Applications of Computational Science</a>**
* <a href="02A-computational-biology" style="color: #3f5a8a;">2.1 Computational Biology</a>
  * <span style="color: #3f5a8a;">go to</span > <a href="https://bioinformaticsworkbook.org" style="color: #518cc2;">_Bioinformatics Workbook_</a>
* <a href="02B-geospatial-analytics" style="color: #3f5a8a;">2.2 Geospatial Analytics</a>
  * <span style="color: #3f5a8a;">go to</span> <a href="https://geospatial.101workbook.org" style="color: #518cc2;">_Geospatial Workbook_</a>
* <a href="02C-machine-learning" style="color: #3f5a8a;">2.3 Machine Learning Outlook</a>
  * <span style="color: #3f5a8a;">go to</span> <a href="https://isugenomics.github.io/AI-workbook" style="color: #518cc2;">_AI Workbook_</a>


---

[Homepage](../index.md){: .btn  .btn--primary}
[Next Section](../02-IntroToCommandLine/00-IntroToCommandLine-LandingPage){: .btn  .btn--primary}
