02-IntroToCommandLine/00-IntroToCommandLine-LandingPage.md, before:

---
title: "Introduction to Command Line"
layout: single
header:
  overlay_color: "444444"
  overlay_image: /02-IntroToCommandLine/assets/images/02_command_line_banner.png
---

Command Line is a text interface for the computer's operating system that passes on-demand the predefined commands and triggers the execution of various processes. That gives the user powerful computing capabilities, great analytical flexibility, and significant time savings. With some knowledge of scripting and algorithm design, you can easily encapsulate a repetitive task in a loop that starts with a single command and runs in the background of your schedule. It makes a huge difference compared to manually renumbering 1000 files. The larger the data set, the greater the savings in researcher time, reduced human error and increased reproducibility and standardization.


## <span style="color: #8997c1;">Table of contents</span>

### **<a href="01-terminal-basics" style="color: #24376b;">1. Terminal: a text-based interface for command-line operations</a>**

### **<a href="02-intro-to-unix-shell" style="color: #24376b;">2. Introduction to UNIX Shell</a>**
* <a href="02A-basic-commands" style="color: #3f5a8a;">2.1 Basic Commands: Navigation, File Creation & Preview</a>
* <a href="02B-text-files-editors" style="color: #3f5a8a;">2.3 Text Files Editors</a>
* <a href="02C-unix-system-info-permissions" style="color: #3f5a8a;">2.2 System Info and Access Permissions</a>
* <a href="02D-admin-commands" style="color: #3f5a8a;">2.4 Admin Commands</a>
* <a href="02E-tutorial-unix-getting-started" style="color: #3f5a8a;">2.5 Tutorial: Getting Started with UNIX</a>

### **<a href="03-text-manipulation-programs" style="color: #24376b;">3. Useful Text Manipulation Programs</a>**
  * <a href="03A-tutorial-unix-grep" style="color: #3f5a8a;">Tutorial: GREP – simple search for regular expressions</a>
  * <a href="03B-tutorial-unix-sed" style="color: #3f5a8a;">Tutorial: Tutorial: SED – edit stream text</a>
  * <a href="3C-tutorial-unix-awk" style="color: #3f5a8a;">Tutorial: AWK – advanced text processing</a>
  * <a href="03D-tutorial-unix-bioawk" style="color: #3f5a8a;">Tutorial: BIOAWK – biological data manipulation</a>

### <a href="04-unix-cheat-sheet" style="color: #518cc2;">* UNIX CheatSheet</a>
---

[Homepage](../index.md){: .btn  .btn--primary}
[Prior Section](../01-IntroToDataScience/00-IntroToDataScience-LandingPage){: .btn  .btn--primary}
[Next Section](../03-SetUpComputingMachine/00-SetUpComputingMachine-LandingPage){: .btn  .btn--primary}

Commit message:

updated preface of Landing Page for section 02-Intro-to-command-line

02-IntroToCommandLine/00-IntroToCommandLine-LandingPage.md, after:

---
title: "Introduction to Command Line"
layout: single
header:
  overlay_color: "444444"
  overlay_image: /02-IntroToCommandLine/assets/images/02_command_line_banner.png
---

Command Line is a text interface for the computer's operating system that passes on-demand the predefined commands and triggers the execution of various processes. That gives the user powerful computing capabilities, great analytical flexibility, and significant time savings from automating tasks. In this section, you become familiar with a terminal, including command-line navigation in the file system, and learn vitally important commands for parsing text files.


## <span style="color: #8997c1;">Table of contents</span>

### **<a href="01-terminal-basics" style="color: #24376b;">1. Terminal: a text-based interface for command-line operations</a>**

### **<a href="02-intro-to-unix-shell" style="color: #24376b;">2. Introduction to UNIX Shell</a>**
* <a href="02A-basic-commands" style="color: #3f5a8a;">2.1 Basic Commands: Navigation, File Creation & Preview</a>
* <a href="02B-text-files-editors" style="color: #3f5a8a;">2.3 Text Files Editors</a>
* <a href="02C-unix-system-info-permissions" style="color: #3f5a8a;">2.2 System Info and Access Permissions</a>
* <a href="02D-admin-commands" style="color: #3f5a8a;">2.4 Admin Commands</a>
* <a href="02E-tutorial-unix-getting-started" style="color: #3f5a8a;">2.5 Tutorial: Getting Started with UNIX</a>

### **<a href="03-text-manipulation-programs" style="color: #24376b;">3. Useful Text Manipulation Programs</a>**
  * <a href="03A-tutorial-unix-grep" style="color: #3f5a8a;">Tutorial: GREP – simple search for regular expressions</a>
  * <a href="03B-tutorial-unix-sed" style="color: #3f5a8a;">Tutorial: Tutorial: SED – edit stream text</a>
  * <a href="3C-tutorial-unix-awk" style="color: #3f5a8a;">Tutorial: AWK – advanced text processing</a>
  * <a href="03D-tutorial-unix-bioawk" style="color: #3f5a8a;">Tutorial: BIOAWK – biological data manipulation</a>

### <a href="04-unix-cheat-sheet" style="color: #518cc2;">* UNIX CheatSheet</a>
---

[Homepage](../index.md){: .btn  .btn--primary}
[Prior Section](../01-IntroToDataScience/00-IntroToDataScience-LandingPage){: .btn  .btn--primary}
[Next Section](../03-SetUpComputingMachine/00-SetUpComputingMachine-LandingPage){: .btn  .btn--primary}
