08-DataVisualization/00-DataVisualization-LandingPage.md, before:

---
title: "Data Visualization"
layout: single
header:
  overlay_color: "444444"
  overlay_image: /08-DataVisualization/assets/images/08_data_visualization_banner.png
---




## <span style="color: #8997c1;">Table of contents</span>

### **<a href="01-scientific-graphic-design-intro" style="color: #24376b;">1. Introduction to Scientific Graphic Design</a>**
* <a href="01A-raster-graphics-tools" style="color: #3f5a8a;">1.1 Raster Graphics Tools</a>
* <a href="01B-vector-graphics-tools" style="color: #3f5a8a;">1.2 Vector Graphics Tools</a>
* <a href="01C-adobe-creative-cloud" style="color: #3f5a8a;">1.3 Adobe Creative Cloud</a>
* <a href="01D-template-based-web-tools" style="color: #3f5a8a;">1.4 Template-based Web Tools</a>

### **<a href="02-introduction-to-scientific-graphing" style="color: #24376b;">2. Introduction to Scientific Graphing</a>**
* <a href="02A-0-gnuplot-basics" style="color: #3f5a8a;">2.1 Gnuplot – Creating Plots in the UNIX Shell</a>
* <a href="02B-0-interactive-graphing-with-python" style="color: #3f5a8a;">2.2 Plotly-Dash – Data Processing & Interactive Plotting with Python</a>
  * <a href="02B-1-intro-to-plotly-graphs" style="color: #3f5a8a;">Introduction to Plotly (Python library)</a>
  * <a href="02B-2-intro-to-dash-widgets" style="color: #3f5a8a;">Introduction to Dash (Python library)</a>
  * <a href="02B-3-plotly-examples-as-local-server" style="color: #3f5a8a;">Interactive Graphing – Local Server with Web-Based Interface</a>
  * <a href="02B-3-plotly-examples-in-jupyterlab" style="color: #3f5a8a;">Plotly Graphing - Interactive Examples in the JupyterLab</a>
    * <a href="02B-4-plotly-tutorial-scatter-plot" style="color: #3f5a8a;">Tutorial: Creating XY Scatter Plot</a>
    * <a href="02B-5-plotly-tutorial-volcano-plot" style="color: #3f5a8a;">Tutorial: Creating 1D Volcano Plot</a>
    * <a href="02B-6-plotly-tutorial-heatmap-plot" style="color: #3f5a8a;">Tutorial: Creating Heatmap</a>
    * <a href="02B-7-plotly-tutorial-dendrogram-plot" style="color: #3f5a8a;">Tutorial: Creating Dendrogram</a>
    * <a href="02B-8-plotly-tutorial-clustergram-plot" style="color: #3f5a8a;">Tutorial: Creating Clustergram (Heatmap with Dendrograms)</a>
* <a href="02C-0-graphing-with-rstudio" style="color: #3f5a8a;">2.3 RStudio – Data Processing & Plotting with R</a>
  * <a href="02C-1-setting-up-rstudio" style="color: #3f5a8a;">Setting Up an RStudio Environment</a>
  * <a href="02C-2-rstudio-tutorial-box-plot" style="color: #3f5a8a;">Tutorial: Creating Boxplots in R</a>
  * <a href="02C-3-rstudio-tutorial-heatmap-plot" style="color: #3f5a8a;">Tutorial: Creating Heatmaps in R</a>


---

[Homepage](../index.md){: .btn  .btn--primary}
[Prior Section](../07-DataParsing/00-DataParsing-LandingPage){: .btn  .btn--primary}
[Next Section](../09-ProjectManagement/00-ProjectManagement-LandingPage){: .btn  .btn--primary}

Commit message:

added preface to Landing Page of section 08-Data-visualization

08-DataVisualization/00-DataVisualization-LandingPage.md, after:

---
title: "Data Visualization"
layout: single
header:
  overlay_color: "444444"
  overlay_image: /08-DataVisualization/assets/images/08_data_visualization_banner.png
---

Nowadays, data visualization is much more than just listing numbers in a table. Infographics and interactive charts perhaps best describe the need for the modern presentation of results. Such visualization is meant to make findings intuitively intelligible and easily understandable at a glance, even to the non-expert. At the same time, it should give the resources to interactively dig deeper into the details for those interested or those evaluating the merits. Let the science-based graphic design kick in the artist in you!


## <span style="color: #8997c1;">Table of contents</span>

### **<a href="01-scientific-graphic-design-intro" style="color: #24376b;">1. Introduction to Scientific Graphic Design</a>**
* <a href="01A-raster-graphics-tools" style="color: #3f5a8a;">1.1 Raster Graphics Tools</a>
* <a href="01B-vector-graphics-tools" style="color: #3f5a8a;">1.2 Vector Graphics Tools</a>
* <a href="01C-adobe-creative-cloud" style="color: #3f5a8a;">1.3 Adobe Creative Cloud</a>
* <a href="01D-template-based-web-tools" style="color: #3f5a8a;">1.4 Template-based Web Tools</a>

### **<a href="02-introduction-to-scientific-graphing" style="color: #24376b;">2. Introduction to Scientific Graphing</a>**
* <a href="02A-0-gnuplot-basics" style="color: #3f5a8a;">2.1 Gnuplot – Creating Plots in the UNIX Shell</a>
* <a href="02B-0-interactive-graphing-with-python" style="color: #3f5a8a;">2.2 Plotly-Dash – Data Processing & Interactive Plotting with Python</a>
  * <a href="02B-1-intro-to-plotly-graphs" style="color: #3f5a8a;">Introduction to Plotly (Python library)</a>
  * <a href="02B-2-intro-to-dash-widgets" style="color: #3f5a8a;">Introduction to Dash (Python library)</a>
  * <a href="02B-3-plotly-examples-as-local-server" style="color: #3f5a8a;">Interactive Graphing – Local Server with Web-Based Interface</a>
  * <a href="02B-3-plotly-examples-in-jupyterlab" style="color: #3f5a8a;">Plotly Graphing - Interactive Examples in the JupyterLab</a>
    * <a href="02B-4-plotly-tutorial-scatter-plot" style="color: #3f5a8a;">Tutorial: Creating XY Scatter Plot</a>
    * <a href="02B-5-plotly-tutorial-volcano-plot" style="color: #3f5a8a;">Tutorial: Creating 1D Volcano Plot</a>
    * <a href="02B-6-plotly-tutorial-heatmap-plot" style="color: #3f5a8a;">Tutorial: Creating Heatmap</a>
    * <a href="02B-7-plotly-tutorial-dendrogram-plot" style="color: #3f5a8a;">Tutorial: Creating Dendrogram</a>
    * <a href="02B-8-plotly-tutorial-clustergram-plot" style="color: #3f5a8a;">Tutorial: Creating Clustergram (Heatmap with Dendrograms)</a>
* <a href="02C-0-graphing-with-rstudio" style="color: #3f5a8a;">2.3 RStudio – Data Processing & Plotting with R</a>
  * <a href="02C-1-setting-up-rstudio" style="color: #3f5a8a;">Setting Up an RStudio Environment</a>
  * <a href="02C-2-rstudio-tutorial-box-plot" style="color: #3f5a8a;">Tutorial: Creating Boxplots in R</a>
  * <a href="02C-3-rstudio-tutorial-heatmap-plot" style="color: #3f5a8a;">Tutorial: Creating Heatmaps in R</a>


---

[Homepage](../index.md){: .btn  .btn--primary}
[Prior Section](../07-DataParsing/00-DataParsing-LandingPage){: .btn  .btn--primary}
[Next Section](../09-ProjectManagement/00-ProjectManagement-LandingPage){: .btn  .btn--primary}
